the Q&A is still not over um just got
back from the gym I'm gonna try to
address four questions this time instead
of just two I'm gonna try to do it
relatively rapidly
I warned you guys back when we had part
one of the Q&A that there would be
something like 999 installments in this
one um we'll see how it goes when we get
to 998 um first question is combining
several people's questions into one I
get asked about basically how I prune my
social network some people give me
compliments on this and some people
complain because they find it offensive
it's true on the one hand that I am
constantly initiating new cooperative
relationships with people on the
Internet and that's a big part of
politics is reaching out to people and
saying hey let's make something positive
happen together and the other hand
people have seen me cut those joy shapes
off where I say no this is past the
point of diminishing returns nothing
positive come from it so I'm not talking
to this person anymore I'm no longer
trying to initiate a cooperation or
collaboration with them and now as soon
as you get to the point of managing
hundreds of online relationships let
alone thousands you have to do that but
I think it's also just something its
intrinsic to politics itself and it's
really part of having a businesslike
attitude towards the world it's very sad
to me when I see people of my generation
who think of the world in terms of
allies and enemies it's not really the
case I mean whether it's business or
politics is a question of who can I
cooperate with and who can I not
cooperate with and you know if there's
someone I can't cooperate with that
doesn't mean they're bad it doesn't mean
they're evil it doesn't mean I hate them
it doesn't mean we have a personal
conflict of any kind it just means we
can't cooperate I can't we can't make
something positive happen together and
that's it and that for me is the
threshold of cutting them off and moving
on and not wasting time so I mean one
person wrote I think he's offended um
you know he
referred to my having quit a Facebook
group was to think vegan skeptics or
something he said oh well you know you
said a bunch of people in the group
didn't know what they were talking about
then you quit the group AHA sounds like
something I do
um for one thing I mean you know this
was true when I was involved with
Buddhism this is true when I was
involved with uh ecology you know Green
Party politics when have you you know
you look around you reach out to people
in a positive way and say oh well you
know who's here who's in the room is
there anyone here I can build a positive
relationship it it is there anyone here
I can make something positive happen
with in terms of cooperation or
collaboration and if there isn't now you
leave the room doesn't mean you leave
angry it just means you've drawn that
conclusion and you're gonna move on so
you know I think that's strange and
startling to some people but as I say I
have actually gotten compliments on it
from some people also people who've
watched me online and have senior that
works I I guess I won't name who but one
of my fellow youtubers said to me you
know in appreciation he said he realized
now like you know at a certain point he
said I realized now that you know you're
not just constantly initiating this type
of cooperation but you've also kind of
mastered one to cut people off and he
said that he needed to learn how to do
that I think because he was still
managing kind of unreasonable requests
unreasonable demands on his time from
all kinds of different people and he was
still laboring to make himself
understood in communicating with people
who were not sincerely interested in
understanding him and you know that's
frustrating that's not real business
that's not real politics that's not real
anything and it's not an effective use
of the Internet it's not even an
effective use of a cocktail party you
need to go face-to-face the cocktail
party as I say it's a lower criteria not
talking about friends and enemies not
even type of friendship you know but
you're definitely not talking about
allies and enemies or what have you
who could I work with who can I
collaborate with who could I connect it
with an who can I not
uh so look I mean again if any of you
guys want to be offended at any
particular instance of that if some
Facebook group I quit or what-have-you
now you got to think about it from my
perspective I joined a given Facebook
group for a reason currently I'm really
in China I'm not using Facebook at all
by the way Facebook is not a very
effective tool for meeting people making
friends or allies but any any medium any
forum any discussion group like that you
know there's a limited number of people
who are active in there you go in you
see who they are do you have any common
ground you can build on and if not keep
it moving um I mean the good thing is
you guys can hear the tone of my voice
as I say this is something I've
contacted thousands of people in total
this way and you know there's a minority
within a minority you can you can make
something positive happen with and why
do I have an interview you know there's
a guy named violent vegan why do I have
an interview with him on my channel
because he he was willing and able to
cooperate with me a lot of other people
who I might like you know who I might
want to even be friends with but who
couldn't get their act together do that
I'd be happy to talk to him again and be
happy to record another Skype
conversation with him and put it on my
channel why because I can because he's
somebody I can cooperate with I mean
politically do I even know how much we
haven't come not really you know what I
don't know him that well I don't know
his political views that well I don't
think of him in terms of an enemy or an
ally um but he's someone I can cooperate
with so I will and that's that's as I
say I used this phrase all the time
that's me going around with an open
heart and open mind and trying to make
the best of connections with my fellow
human beings but sure it's also a very
low criterion if I if I can't cooperate
with you the threshold is pretty low as
soon as it's clear I can't have positive
cooperation with you and it's over and
there's there's just no point in my
spending one minute writing you an email
because I could be writing that email to
a lot of other people who would value my
time and it would sincerely like to
communicate with me cooperate with me or
organize political action so alright I
think this is not the order I'd planned
alright Madalena writes in a
you guys already know my Madalena by her
first name at this point she is asking
about my studying method so I assume she
means for for a language primarily not
for history and politics and she talks
about her own struggles with studying at
the computer and so on look the truth is
the methods I used the study were very
different for each of the languages that
I have studied and this point that list
of languages is frightening Li long and
it's been different because my goals
have been different because the
languages themselves have been different
and because the nature of my motivation
has been different and one of the things
that I've said openly here even now in
China is that I don't want to learn
Chinese it's both true past tense and
present tense I didn't want to learn
Chinese and I still don't I am I am
doing it anyway but my motivation for
Chinese is completely different from my
motivation for a language like Polly
Polly is an ancient dead language mostly
associated with Buddhism and it comes
from India in terms of geography it's
not an East Asian language it's a South
Asian language you know with lotion
probably for a full year in Laos the
first whole year I was really ambivalent
about whether or not I wanted to learn
Lao at all whether or not I should be
learning Lao whether or not studying
that language was a waste of my time and
I was studying Pali and what have you
now why was that I was really thinking
maybe I should switch to Burmese
language of Myanmar maybe I should
switch to Cambodian you know it was the
feeling that Cambodia's history and
culture and politics were deep and huge
whereas Laos was sort of small and
crowded and uh you know not as many
centuries to work on you know and
obviously the temptation of Myanmar at
that time Myanmar still had a civil war
going on and the prospects for
humanitarian work connected Myanmar or
in some ways very appealing so for a
whole year I was I was studying Lao was
speaking it at the market I was buying
mangos using that language but I was not
highly focused and committed on Lao when
I was in bivolo but whether or not that
was the right language should be
learning and then you know I was dragged
into a police station by corrupt
policemen who tried to extort money out
of me
and speaking Lao as best I could I
handled that threat I was talk to them I
remember that day when I got home and I
won by the way I didn't pay a dime and I
really outsmarted them it'd be very
difficult to tell the story but what I
did was very clever and the police
themselves were delighted at it when
they figured out how I beaten them sort
of beating them at their own game they
were laughing and smiling I said oh wow
okay you know you really pulled this off
and they invited me to kind of get
involved with them in a different scam
very peculiar story anyway hey man
lotion police officers nicest nicest
bunch of guys who ever tried to extort
money out of me um but that that did end
in my favor but obviously in terms of
the language that was a huge challenge
it was said I remember I got home from
that I looked at the books on my table
and I thought look either I'm all the
way in or all the way out because the
type of danger I had to manage their
political danger and this kind of thing
I couldn't anymore be sort of halfway
committed to studying the language
either it was Laos now either committed
that country in that language or I pack
up and leave now like you know whether
it's Cambodia or Myanmar you know I
couldn't I couldn't remain indecisive
and so from that day forward then all my
study methods changed and my whole
emphasis changed I switch to studying
Lao so this I mean obviously this is not
the answer you want to hear currently I
am in the classroom with the teacher
face to face speaking and studying and
practicing Chinese for four hours a day
five days a week that's a huge burden
the amount of studying I've been doing
outside of class has been very little
mostly due to illness I was very sick
for quite a long time I'm not sure right
now I'm gonna switch it up again I'm
aware with all the languages I've
studied them aware of my own strengths
and weaknesses in some ways I have a
natural advantage with a written
language and so then you have the
question are you gonna force yourself to
work against your strengths in working
on spoken language or you're gonna take
advantage of your strengths and plunge
deeper into the written language etc etc
I guess the one the one thing I'd say is
that
in the approach to studying languages
the mistake most people make is of
searching for simplicity they want to
simplify the study itself and simplify
the information they're studying and
simplicity is your enemy with languages
the way the brain works is that we
remember things we access information
and we learn information through
associations between things so the more
complex associations you have the better
you're able to both learn retain and use
that information memorizing one fact in
isolation is much less useful to you
than having complex network of thoughts
ideas in fact the connect to that so
plunging into the complexity of language
and meaning rather than trying to
simplify things like most people the
first stage is okay here's a complex
part of language I'm gonna simplify it
and write it down and exclude most
information so that it's easier for me
to learn that's almost the opposite of
what you want to do and even with
something like you know the Chinese
characters I break them down in my
analysis so there's more and more
information to learn so that I learned
the components that make up the
character multiple meanings a whole
history etymological information about
the word etc and it's range of meaning
so even though you're remembering more
you're memorizing more you're also
learning a complex cluster of ideas
instead of having an isolated factoid
information that's harder for you do to
actually work with okay ultra I may be
mispronouncing your name oh sure I asked
the question what do you think about
studying psychology and university I'm
really interested in it but my parents
are very skeptical about its usefulness
and my future employment now a shrah I
do not know what country you're living
in and you know obviously I don't know
your exact age the single greatest piece
of advice I can give you is to meet the
people face the face who actually have
the jobs in that sector and to get them
in a situation where they can really be
honest with you that's not easy it's in
some cultures it's more difficult like
in British culture to sit down with
someone who's you know a psych major
who's gone on to do some kind of work
after being a psych major and to get
them to really talk about the way in
which their job sucks the way in which
their life is difficult in British
culture that's very difficult to do I'd
say it's easier in American culture from
one culture to another you can compare
different cultures under what caught in
what circumstances can you sit down and
really get an honest statement from
someone about their career about their
work challenges in their life
I knew several people who were psych
majors in Victoria BC one guy was
completely miserable he worked with drug
addicts formerly homeless drug addicts
psychological counseling for them and he
you know obviously it devastated his
whole life long term he would just say
things like there was a zero percent
recovery rate he was talking these
people but he felt nothing he was doing
helped them and nothing positive came
out of it whatsoever the type of
counseling or guidance he was giving
them that this was kind of a terrible
force now not everyone feels that way
Jill I'm sure you could talk to someone
who done a similar job and you felt they
were really making a very meaningful
difference in the world when I was
taking the tests the aptitude test to
join the army the guy who literally sat
next to me writing the tests he was a
psych major in a psych background and he
had been doing exactly the same work I
just described for several years there's
two different guys and so I talked with
him a little bit and obviously the
reason why he was joining the army was
that he also felt that his life and
talents have been totally wasted as a
psych major and again he mostly dealt
with drug addicts and what have you now
different strokes for different folks
for me personally how would I have done
in that line of work would my set of
humanitarian instincts and research
interests have found that rewarding I
don't know
but again talking to people who have
actually walked that path that's the
crucial step and also I mean it's funny
because you both have to know how to not
disregard advice when you hear it how to
take seriously the hints and what
they're telling you but on the other
hand some people are gonna just give you
propaganda so you need to know when to
disregard information also when people
just tell you oh it's wonderful
mm-hmm you know when you can get honest
intelligence out of people really
knowing how to carry that around in your
pocket and to be aware okay that's his
that's his perspective based on his
experience working with drug addicts but
you know what about the other
perspectives the other types of research
or other types of applied psychology who
else can I talk to you but anyway this
is true of every field even including
Buddhist philosophy by the way I talked
to tons of people in that field and got
a whole range of their impressions and
most of them were miserable and just
like the two psychologists most of them
are completely miserable that field um
and you know again some of some of the
advice I took very seriously some of
that I disregarded and I later regretted
that I disregarded and some of it I
disregarded I was completely right
to disregard it because they were the
people gave me the advice were insane or
were eccentric so it was just terrible
advice so yeah that's my approach to all
all fields and all disciplines only
problem being when you're walking into a
field which is where there is nobody
else who does what you did we use them
really original then things get scary
alright Miranda rights so this question
is very salient to a lot of discussions
have had on the channel lately and and
here on patreon Miranda rights I guess
I'll quote the whole thing
Miranda starts by thanking me for my
approach to the the wild talking about
wild animals not domesticated animals
and then in the middle of her comment
she says quote but that being said it
seems like if people start to think of
farmed animals as having pet qualities
they may be more likely to stop eating
meat and other byproducts or that seems
to be something that is working at least
do you think we should continue these
arguments about how caring and loving
animals can be as they seem to reach
people in remote emotional levels a
close quote so she's asking you about
this a business of presenting farm
animals as equivalent to pet so arguing
that a pig can be just as loving as a
dog a piglet can be just as cute as a
puppy etc etc so look I think the real
question here is ultimately of harm and
risk threats of violence within veganism
there's a real harm there's real risk it
really discredit us as vegans as you
know I've dealt with this lately but I
talked about it
in the relatively distant past they may
have used other examples when you look
at the history of communism communists
spent a great deal of time using
violence against themselves communists
killing their fellow communists
horrifying that part of the history is
truly I mean it's truly horrifying when
you look at a an armed movement like the
IRA the Irish independence movement the
openly violent part they're Irish
Benjamin again they spent a lot of their
time killing their own people killing
and persecuting their fellow members
their RA and anyone who lived through
that struggle and in living memory in
recent decades a lot of them when they
talk about it their main fear in life
the fear they had to go to sleep with
every night was not so much the fear of
their enemy it was their fear of being
killed or persecuted by their their
friends by other people in the same
movement of themselves so there are a
lot of other examples of that so the
tendency towards violence within
veganism which you can see even on
YouTube and you can see it on the people
who threatened to beat me up threatened
to kill me threatened to have me
arrested you can see it in my own life
but you can also see it in you know my
critique of Gary Yourofsky my critique
of other violent and pseudo violent
movements in veganism there's danger
there's risk there's an issue of being
discredited there's real harm to the
vegan movement as a whole
now this by contrast you know it's safe
to play with I don't think it harms
veganism in that way even if it's kind
of wrong or kind of dumb and it's also
not I mean it's it's it's kind of a
fiction
that's not incompatible with the truth
you can do both right you can talk about
how cute a piglet is and at the same
time you could say in the very next
sentence you can talk about how wild
boars live in the wild you know how what
would the qualities of ferocity
independence you know defiance dignity
that this has is a wild animal you can
do both something can be cute and at the
same time have the dignity of being a
real well
I think it's really worth talking about
that that wild boars eat meat and they
eat large mammals and wild boars do try
to kill human beings that you know in
nature they're not our friends they're
our enemies they literally prey on us
when they have a chance in the woods and
again I've actually had email from
people writing in to me saying yea they
know what that's like they know what
it's like to be stalked by or attacked
by a wild boar in the woods but still
they can be cute I mean a baby lion can
be cute and we can also recognize look
in the in the wild lions are not our
friends so in that sense even though you
know I've come down in a logical way
I've got a sort of very strong position
on this this is a situation where you
can to some extent play with this you
can mix fiction in fact to some extent
and there's not going to be real harm or
risk that comes out of it however having
said this I know I've said similar
things recently we need to be very clear
with ourselves and others when there is
harm when there is risk when we're
discrediting ourselves and when we're
ultimately putting ourselves in peril as
vegans and we're putting veganism as a
social movement in peril and very
clearly violence and defamation and
pseudoscience give three examples
pseudoscience like claim that eating
garlic garlic contains a neurotoxin you
know violence defamation pseudoscience
there's real risk there's real harm
these are things that really discredit
us and these are things where we cannot
have any compromise we can't have any
mix of fact and fiction but look if you
want to say that a piglet can be cute
and loving just like a puppy okay you
can do that also but obviously given the
context of 2016 I've had to come down on
YouTube and say very clearly the other
side of the story that's been forgotten
and how dogs behave in the wild is
something human beings want to forget
how pigs wild boars behave in the wilds
and we want to forget and ultimately you
know the cutesy poo discourse yeah it
could open some doors it could make some
people listen to reason who otherwise
wouldn't have listened to reason however
it is not rational itself once the door
is open once they listen to reason then
you have to be prepared to provide
something truly
rational truly reasonable truly
convincing and that's not gonna be
cuteness alone that's not gonna win the
struggle for a vegan future thanks for
listening to me guys this is not the
first part not the last part of the Q&A
I don't know how many more I'm gonna do
but I hope you guys appreciate it I
appreciate your questions I appreciate
every person on patreon I appreciate
every dollar I'm getting and I hope we
are really building a crossroads a
network of like-minded people that can
accomplish something really positive in
the future